Add support for programmatic mapping and mapping configurers (#35026)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/hibernate-search-orm-elasticsearch.adoc

`@IndexedEmbedded` also supports nested documents (using the `storage = NESTED` attribute), but we don't need it here.
You can also specify the fields you want to include in your parent index using the `includePaths` attribute if you don't want them all.

[programmatic-mapping]
=== Programmatic mapping

If, for some reason, adding Hibernate Search annotations to entities is not possible,
mapping can be applied programmatically instead.

> Programmatic mapping is configured through `ProgrammaticMappingConfigurationContext`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Programmatic mapping is configured through the `ProgrammaticMappingConfigurationContext`
```

that is exposed via a mapping configurer (`HibernateOrmSearchMappingConfigurer`).

[NOTE]
====

> Mapping configurer (`HibernateOrmSearchMappingConfigurer`) exposes much more than just programmatic mapping capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A mapping configurer (`HibernateOrmSearchMappingConfigurer`) allows much more than just programmatic mapping capabilities.
```

> It also allows configuring annotation mapping, bridges, and more.

Reviewer: Do we have a link to the reference documentation that we could put here?

====

> An example of a mapping configure that applies programmatic mapping can look as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is an example of a mapping configurer that applies programmatic mapping:
```

[source,java]
----
package org.acme.hibernate.search.elasticsearch.config;

import org.hibernate.search.mapper.orm.mapping.HibernateOrmMappingConfigurationContext;
import org.hibernate.search.mapper.orm.mapping.HibernateOrmSearchMappingConfigurer;
import org.hibernate.search.mapper.pojo.mapping.definition.programmatic.TypeMappingStep;

import io.quarkus.hibernate.search.orm.elasticsearch.SearchExtension;

@SearchExtension // <1>
public class CustomMappingConfigurer implements HibernateOrmSearchMappingConfigurer {

	@Override
    public void configure(HibernateOrmMappingConfigurationContext context) {
        TypeMappingStep type = context.programmaticMapping()    // <2>
            .type(SomeIndexedEntity.class);                     // <3>
        type.indexed()                                          // <4>
            .index(SomeIndexedEntity.INDEX_NAME);               // <5>
        type.property("id").documentId();                       // <6>
        type.property("text").fullTextField();                  // <7>
    }
}
----
<1> Annotate the configurer implementation with the `@SearchExtension` qualifier

> to tell Quarkus it should be used in the default persistence unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to tell Quarkus it should be used by Hibernate Search in the default persistence unit.
```

import org.hibernate.search.backend.elasticsearch.analysis.ElasticsearchAnalysisConfigurationContext;
import org.hibernate.search.backend.elasticsearch.analysis.ElasticsearchAnalysisConfigurer;

> import io.quarkus.hibernate.search.orm.elasticsearch.SearchExtension;

Reviewer: Good catch :+1:
